Bagdogra is a city in the Naxalbari CD block in the Siliguri subdivision of the Darjeeling district, in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is a part of the Greater Siliguri Metropolitan Area. Bagdogra is well connected by air from four major cities of India – Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. It has a railway station named Bagdogra Railway Station. Bagdogra Airport is now a customs Airport. Geography Location Bagdogra is located at . It is 11 km away from Siliguri. It has two National Highways :- AH 2 and NH 31C. It also has Asian Highway (AH2). Area overview The map alongside shows the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. This area is spread across the foothills of the Himalayas and is a plain land gently sloping from north to south. While the northern part is mentioned as the Terai region, the larger southern portion forms the western part of the Dooars region. While 55.11% per cent of the population resides in the rural areas, 44.89% resides in the urban areas. On the western side the Mechi River forms a long border with Nepal. On the eastern side the Mahananda River forms a short border with Bangladesh. Note: The map alongside presents some of the notable locations in the subdivision. All places marked in the map are linked in the larger full screen map. Climate =jjkhadjdlJD09NKN(0255) KHIJSDH JKFNCJFGIODNG Civic administration Police station Bagdogra police station has jurisdiction over parts of Siliguri Municipal Corporation. Transport Airway The one airport, Bagdogra International Airport, (IATA: IXB, ICAO: VEBD) is located in about 16 km (9.9 mi) west of the city of Siliguri in the Darjeeling district in northern West Bengal, India. It is operated as a civil enclave at Air Force Station Bagdogra. It is the gateway airport to the hill station towns of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Mirik, and Kalimpong and the state of Sikkim, and sees thousands of tourists annually. Permits for Foreign tourists intending to journey to Sikkim are issued at this airport. And airport is a major stop in the region with flights connecting Kolkata, New Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai, Guwahati, Paro and Bangkok. The airport also has regular helicopter flights to Gangtok, the capital of Sikkim. The central government of India conferred international airport status to the airport in 2002 with limited international operations. Railway Bagdogra Railway Station comes under Northeast Frontier Railway zone (NFR) Siliguri-Katihar Railway Line. The station code of Bagdogra is (BORA). Roadway It has two National Highways :- NH 31 and NH 31C. It also has Aisan Highway (AH2) which is connected with Nepal and Bangladesh. It provides a gateway to the state of North - East India. Education The University of North Bengal was established at Raja Rammohunpur in 1962. Kalipada Ghosh Tarai Mahavidyalaya was established at Bagdogra in 1988. Affiliated with the University of North Bengal, it offers honours courses in Bengali, Nepali, Hindi, English, geography, history, political science, sociology, accountancy, management, and general courses in arts, science and commerce. Bagdogra has good educational institutions till senior secondary level. Here you have prominent schools like Air Force School Bagdogra, Army Public School BENGDUBI, Kendriya Vidayalaya AFS Bagdogra, Kendriya Vidyalaya Bengdubi. These all four schools are CBSE affiliated. Here you have two ICSE affiliated school namely Good Shepherd School and Hebron English School. Four prominent West Bengal Board affiliated government school are also available. They are Gandhi Memorial Nepali High School up to class 10, Subhmaya Hindi High School up to Class 10, Balika Bidyalaya Bengali School for girls up to class 10 and Chitranjana High School for boys up to class 12. References Neighbourhoods in Siliguri Siliguri Cities and towns in Darjeeling district